Simplify Versioning and move release-to-contract information on-chain (#14314)
ethereum-optimism/optimism: packages/contracts-bedrock/meta/VERSIONING.md

Versioning for individual contracts works as follows:

> - A contract is only `X.Y.Z` on `develop` if it has been governance approved. If it's `X.Y.Z` before that, it must be on a branch. More on this below.

Reviewer: > A contract is only `X.Y.Z` on `develop` if it has been governance approved

This is no longer true, I'd suggest rephrasing this bullet to:

> A contract on `develop` always has a version of `X.Y.Z`, regardless of whether is has been governance approved and meets our security bar. This DOES NOT indicate these contracts are always safe for production use. More on this below.

- For contracts with feature-specific changes, a `+feature-name` identifier must be appended to the version number. See the [Smart Contract Feature Development](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/design-docs/blob/main/smart-contract-feature-development.md) design document to learn more.
- When making changes to a contract, always bump to the lowest possible version based on the specific change you are making. We do not want to e.g. optimistically bump to a major version, because protocol development sequencing may change unexpectedly. Use these examples to know how to bump the version:
  - Example 1: A contract is currently on `1.2.3`.
    - We don't yet know when the next release of this contract will be. However, you are simply fixing typos in comments so you bump the version to `1.2.4`.

>     - The next PR made to that same contract clarifies some comments, but we haven't merged to `develop` yet. The version is still `1.2.4`.

Reviewer: Why does merging to `develop` matter here? I think this should be
```suggestion
- The next PR made to that same contract clarifies some comments, so we again bump the patch version, and the version is now still `1.2.5`.
```

>     - The next PR made to that same contract clarifies some comments, but we haven't merged to `develop` yet. The version is still `1.2.4`.
>     - The next PR introduces a breaking change, which bumps the version from `1.2.4` to `2.0.0`.

Reviewer: Why does merging to `develop` matter? I think this should be
```suggestion
- The next PR made to that same contract clarifies some comments, so we again bump the patch version, and the version is now still `1.2.5`.
    - The next PR introduces a breaking change, which bumps the version from `1.2.5` to `2.0.0`.
```

  - Example 2: A contract is currently on `2.4.7`.
    - We know the next release of this contract will be a breaking change. Regardless, as you start development by fixing typos in comments, bump the version to `2.4.8`. This is because we may end up putting out a release before the breaking change is added.
    - Once you start working on the breaking change, bump the version to `3.0.0`.
- New contracts start at `1.0.0`.

Versioning is enforced by CI checks:
  - Any contract that differs from its version in the `develop` branch must be bumped to a new semver value, or the build will fail.
  - Any branch with at least one modified contract must have its `semver-lock.json` file updated, or the build will fail. You can use the `semver-lock` or `pre-commit` just commands to do so.

> Note: Previously, the versioning scheme included `-beta.n` and `-rc.n` qualifiers. These are no longer used to reduce the amount of work required to execute this versioning system.

Reviewer: It looks like there are still contracts on develop with the `-beta.n` convention that we need to bump. Similarly, we need to update our semgrep rules and tests to disallow this naming convention (ref [1](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/0e4b867e08ed4dfcb5f1a76693f17392b189a7f6/.semgrep/rules/sol-rules.yaml#L50), [2](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/0e4b867e08ed4dfcb5f1a76693f17392b189a7f6/.semgrep/tests/sol-rules.t.sol#L255)) — do we have tracking issues for these tasks?

  - A subsequent release of the custom gas token feature that fixes bugs and introduces an additional breaking change would be `op-contracts/v3.0.0`.
  - This means `+feature-name` naming is not used for monorepo releases, only for individual contracts as described below.
- A monorepo contracts release must map to an exact set of contract semvers, and this mapping must be defined in the contract release notes which are the source of truth. See [`op-contracts/v1.4.0-rc.4`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases/tag/op-contracts%2Fv1.4.0-rc.4) for an example of what release notes should look like.

## Optimism Contracts Manager (OPCM) Versioning

> The [OPCM](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/main/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol) is the contract that manages the deployment of all contracts on L1. Its version is the same as the [associated monorepo contracts release](./VERSIONING.md#monorepo-contracts-release-versioning).

Reviewer: > Its version is the same as the [associated monorepo contracts release](./VERSIONING.md#monorepo-contracts-release-versioning).

Is this true? The current OPCM has a version of [1.6.0](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/0e4b867e08ed4dfcb5f1a76693f17392b189a7f6/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol#L151), which does not match the latest release (1.8.0) or the next release (2.0.0). How do we square the "every change bumps a contract's version" rule with this "OPCM version is the same as the monorepo release" claim? 

Also, fixing a link:

```suggestion
The [OPCM](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol) is the contract that manages the deployment of all contracts on L1. Its version is the same as the [associated monorepo contracts release](./VERSIONING.md#monorepo-contracts-release-versioning).
```

Reviewer 2: You're correct. The OPCM has it's own version. This should refer to the [l1contractsRelease()](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/07719d9c2a0c020211e3e2e1b0f17e135f122427/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol#L186) method.

The `OPCM` is the source of truth for the contracts that belong in a release, available as on-chain addresses by querying [the `getImplementations` function](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/4c8764f0453e141555846d8c9dd2af9edbc1d014/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol#L1061).

> When developing a new version of the OPCM, [the `isRC` flag](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/4c8764f0453e141555846d8c9dd2af9edbc1d014/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol#L181) must be set to `true` to indicate that the OPCM is in a release candidate state. The flag [will be set to `false`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/4c8764f0453e141555846d8c9dd2af9edbc1d014/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol#L453) when the OPCM is deployed to L1 using the `upgrade` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When developing a new version of the OPCM, [the `isRC` flag](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/4c8764f0453e141555846d8c9dd2af9edbc1d014/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol#L181) must be set to `true` to indicate that the OPCM is in a release candidate state. The flag [will be set to `false`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/4c8764f0453e141555846d8c9dd2af9edbc1d014/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OPContractsManager.sol#L453) the first time the OPCM `upgrade` method is invoked from governance's Upgrade Controller Safe. This Safe is a 2/2 held by the Security Council and Optimism Foundation.
```
